Add updating Jenkins section in User's Handbook (#5888)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/updating/servlet-containers.adoc

---
layout: section
title: Other Servlet Containers
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

== Servlet container

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

Once a .war archive has been downloaded, follow the servlet container’s existing application deployment process.

When using servlet containers, Jenkins will set the `JENKINS_HOME` to the `$APP_SERVER_USER/.jenkins/` folder. 
If the servlet container installation *does not include write permissions* to this folder for this user (sometimes done for security), you either need to grant appropriate permissions or override 
this setting by adding the `-DJENKINS_HOME=$MY_JENKINSPATH` argument in your servlet container startup. 
Refer to the servlet container’s documentation for how to add startup arguments.

== Tomcat

> Use environment variable CATALINA_OPTS to add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use environment variable CATALINA_OPTS to add:
[source]
```

```
-Dorg.apache.tomcat.util.buf.UDecoder.ALLOW_ENCODED_SLASH=true.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
[source]
```
````

---
layout: section
title: Other Servlet Containers
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

== Servlet container

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

Once a .war archive has been downloaded, follow the servlet container’s existing application deployment process.

When using servlet containers, Jenkins will set the `JENKINS_HOME` to the `$APP_SERVER_USER/.jenkins/` folder. 
If the servlet container installation *does not include write permissions* to this folder for this user (sometimes done for security), you either need to grant appropriate permissions or override 
this setting by adding the `-DJENKINS_HOME=$MY_JENKINSPATH` argument in your servlet container startup. 
Refer to the servlet container’s documentation for how to add startup arguments.

== Tomcat
Use environment variable CATALINA_OPTS to add:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-docs@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:hide-uri-scheme:
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
endif::[]

== Servlet container

include::doc/book/updating/_pre-upgrade-wizard.adoc[]

Once a .war archive has been downloaded, follow the servlet container’s existing application deployment process.

When using servlet containers, Jenkins will set the `JENKINS_HOME` to the `$APP_SERVER_USER/.jenkins/` folder. 
If the servlet container installation *does not include write permissions* to this folder for this user (sometimes done for security), you either need to grant appropriate permissions or override 
this setting by adding the `-DJENKINS_HOME=$MY_JENKINSPATH` argument in your servlet container startup. 
Refer to the servlet container’s documentation for how to add startup arguments.

== Tomcat
Use environment variable CATALINA_OPTS to add:
[source]
```
-Dorg.apache.tomcat.util.buf.UDecoder.ALLOW_ENCODED_SLASH=true.
```
[source]
```
-Dorg.apache.catalina.connector.CoyoteAdapter.ALLOW_BACKSLASH=true
```
which is needed for Blue Ocean.

> It is recommended to configure it in the script `$CATALINA_BASE/bin/setenv.sh (Linux) or `%CATALINA_BASE%\bin\setenv.bat` (Microsoft Windows) that you’ll create to customize your application server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to configure it in the script you’ll create to customize your application server as `$CATALINA_BASE/bin/setenv.sh` (Linux) or `%CATALINA_BASE%\bin\setenv.bat` (Windows).
```
small update for message flow, if this removes the original intention, disregard

== Custom container installations

> If you use a custom container, you will find the jenkins.war or jenkins-oc.war file in the deploy directory of your container. For example, `/usr/local/jboss/server/default/deploy/jenkins.war` would be the location for a default JBoss installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use a custom container, you will find the jenkins.war or jenkins-oc.war file in the deploy directory of your container.
For example, `/usr/local/jboss/server/default/deploy/jenkins.war` would be the location for a default JBoss installation.
```
one sentence per line
